# A-Clustering-Based-Approach-for-Effective-Prevention-of-SQL-Injections

**Abstract**

SQL injection attack happens due to insertion of a malicious SQL query into the application server via the input data from the attacker. A successful SQL injection attack can read and/or modify sensitive data stored in the database, execute administrative commands on the database such as DB shutdown, and in some cases issue harmful commands to the operating system. Owing to this, injection based security vulnerabilities rank in the top ten security pitfalls identified by Open Web Application Security Project. Due to the significance of the security of web-based database applications, prevention of the SQL injection at the right time is of paramount importance. A lot of research has been carried out on SQL injection attack detection and prevention. However, there is not much work done on clustering of SQL injections into different types. Since different types of SQL injections can be countered effectively using different techniques, grouping of SQL injections can help organizations to allocate resources judiciously for effective prevention of SQL injection attack. In this paper, we present an empirical study to identify the best suited unsupervised machine learning algorithm for clustering SQL injections, with an intention to find the frequency of occurrence of different types of injections. This approach would aid organizations to strengthen their security measures against particular types of injections in a more focused way. We also give a detailed analysis of efficacy of the clustering algorithms used.
